---
layout: item
title: Van's Era Shoes
author: Paul Centanni
itemid: 2019-10-03-0018
itemcontributor: J’essence Reynolds 
itemcreator: Vans Inc
itemsubjecturl: 
itemsubject: Shoes
itemdate: ca. 2018
itemtype: Physical Object
shortdesc: Colorful and vibrant low top shoes with a white sole and white laces.  They have black and white checkers with a yellow stripe right through the shoe.  It also has hits of teal and raspberry
categories: [ Individual Expression ]
tags: [ material culture, clothing, feet, shoes, skateboarding, Vans, Lucky, Consumer Culture, Sneakers, Fashion Merchandising]
---

## The shoes that changed the world forever

These multi-colored Vans are not the usual sneaker you see, but they have been around for over 50 years.  Starting in Anaheim, California, the [Van Doren](https://www.vans.com/history.html#1978) brothers opened up their first Vans store with the impression of making some regular shoes, but were eaten up by the [skateboarding culture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xL42dN4oO9E) of California.  The Van’s “Era,” the shoes archived, were the first official now-a-day Vans created by the brothers. These shoes have a lot of character but something that makes them unique is that the name is rarely seen on the shoe, except the bottom of the heel and sometimes on the tongue.  These shoes aren’t like Nike or Adidas who have personalized logos. Vans are all different and if something that may show signs of branding, is the white straight line on the sides of the shoe.


These sneakers are unlike the others.  How items have no branding, but have such a cult culture following is what people like about items.  These sneakers are items that have no branding and really have no name anywhere on them. What makes them unique is the history behind them.  These aren’t shoes that need a huge logo on them, just like the [IU candy stripe pants](http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/archivesphotos/results/item.do?itemId=P0041307&searchId=0&searchResultIndex=8). Both have been a tradition for each of their respective fields.  It is something that doesn’t need to be outlandish or very huge, it is just having that knowledge of knowing what they are.


## From the Contributor

>I only wear these when I feel like I am going to end up having a really good day.  I would say today has been one of the best days I have worn them.  And, actually, the activities we have done.  Like I went shopping today, so thats always a good day.  And then this was my first time coming to First Thursdays. {% if page.itemcontributor %}**—{{ page.itemcontributor }}**{% endif %}