---
layout: item
title: Recipes From the Heart of Hawaiis Puerto Ricans
author: Laura B. Martin-Robley	
itemid: 10-10-2019-0007
itemcontributor: Kalani Craig
itemcreator: Kalanis Cousins
itemsubjecturl: 
itemsubject: Familial Cookbook Containing Recipes
itemdate: ca. 1999
itemtype: Cookbook
shortdesc: A Cookbook of various recipes from the Puerto Rican Hawaiian community.
categories: [ Individual Expression, Family Ties, Community Culture] 
tags: [ Cooking, Recipes, Family History, Food, Island cooking Cooking, Puerto Rico Cooking, Hawaiian, Institute of Pacific Relations, Puerto Rican Immigration, Consumer Culture]
---

## About This Object 

This object is a family cookbook that has collected family recipes and local Puerto Rican as well as a few filipino cooking recipes, techniques, and historical information from these communities that have made Hawaii their home. This cookbook serves as a piece of history to its owner. It sheds a light onto a life in Hawaii that they did not live themselves. Since being from the “Mainland” meant being far from this culture, Being able to be in possession of the book allowed for a familial connection that otherwise would be hard to ascertain

## Connection Between Your Object and The Primary Source 1

The primary source used, helped me bring together my primary source with my object, because it explained the importance of maintaining cultural values for minority groups everywhere. It explains the importance of keeping family traditions wherever one moves in life. This led me to find a folklore set of papers that explains the importance of how the Jewish people maintain their culture through food and cooking the same way their ancestors did. Food is an important piece of culture in any group, and has value that goes much further than just keeping people full. This allows for people to see how powerful cultural values and ways of life are for various groups of people around the world.

Citation: Indiana University Folklore Institute student papers, 1967-2000Collection #: C627 http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/findingaids/vie w?docId=InU-Ar-VAD7971.xml&brand=genera l&text1=food&text2=history&op1=and&op2=an d&field1=text&field2=text&field3=text&startDo c=1

## Connection Between Your Object and The Primary Source 2

This primary source I found relates quite interestingly close to my object. This NPR article contains an interview of a woman named, Von Diaz, and she wrote a cookbook called “Coconuts and Collards”. Her cookbook is based on her growing up in the south of the United States, while also living in a traditional Puerto Rican household, as well as visiting her grandmother in Puerto Rico as a child. Diaz’s book shows the ways in which she brewed a hybrid-like technique between her southern upbringing and Puerto Rican heritage, when cooking. Diaz’s story is quite like the object I have chosen, “Recipes from The Heart of Hawaii’s Puerto Ricans”. Both the object I selected, and Diaz’s cookbook are both cookbooks that have Puerto Rican origin, as well as containing an interesting blend of foods from other countries. For instance, Diaz had southern food in the United States to blend, while the object I chose had origins from the state of Hawaii. This source is very interesting, because of how closely related these two different stories are. It truly shows the importance of keeping track of cultural past no matter where one might end up.

“Puerto Rican Cooking And The American South Mix In 'Coconuts And Collards'.” Puerto Rican Cooking And The American South Mix In 'Coconuts And Collards'. National Public Radio, March 18, 2018. https://web.a.ebscohost.com/ehost/detail/detail?vid=1&sid=c95a2475-b259-4a3e-8027-68a176871906%40sdc-v-sessmgr02&bdata=JnNpdGU9ZWhvc3QtbGl2ZSZzY29wZT1zaXRl#db=n5h&AN=6XN201803181316

 ## How The Secondary Source Ties To Your Object 1

The secondary source I found ties to my object because it is a scholarly article that studies the in depth view of caribbean cooking and the various ways these small island countries create incredible food. The in depth literature gives insight to the cultural background that these communities such as the Puerto Ricans live in. Being able to connect these to the Hawaiian Puerto Ricans illustrates where these values and cultural ways of life got started and how they were brought to the Island state of Hawaii from other countries in the Caribbean.

Puerto Rican immigration to the Hawaiian islands was, in part, a response to labor shortages that followed several decades of discrimination against and exclusion of East Asian immigrants. The first of these bans in 1882 excluded Chinese immigrants; although Hawaii was still a sovereign nation at the time, these bans influenced immigration to Hawaii, and in particular, treatment of Chinese immigrants who had been citizens in an 1887 constitution that denaturalized Chinese and Japanese citizens of Hawaii and weakened the Hawaiian monarchy. (https://centropr.hunter.cuny.edu/centrovoices/chronicles/how-first-puerto-ricans-arrived-hawai%E2%80%99i-island)

Citation: Related Secondary Source Citation:
Higman, B. W. "COOKBOOKS AND CARIBBEAN CULTURAL IDENTITY: AN ENGLISH-LANGUAGE HORS D'OEUVRE." NWIG: New West Indian Guide / Nieuwe West-Indische Gids 72, no. 1/2 (1998): 77-95. http://www.jstor.org/stable/41849892.

## How The Secondary Source Ties To Your Object 2

This secondary source that I found, gives a great amount of insight into the origin of Puerto Rican foods. This secondary source is quite important because it gives the scientific background behind many of Puerto Rico’s famous foods and dishes. Understanding these foods can illustrate how we come up with ideas and recipes related to different food groups. The power of knowing where something comes from allows you to become entuned with the food and where it comes from. This is especially important for cases such as the object I chose, “Recipes from The Heart of Hawaii’s Puerto Ricans”. The cookbook comes from Hawaii but is culturally enrooted in Puerto Rico. This is important because, even though people move to new places all over the world, they can always bring their culture with them, when they have their cookbook. This gives those people the cultural connection they are looking for, when making these specific dishes. Origins of food will always help connect the dots when searching for certain cultural blends of foods that may be from different places. 

 
Barrett, O. W. "The Origins of the Food Plants of Puerto Rico." The Scientific Monthly 37, no. 3 (1933): 241-56. http://www.jstor.org/stable/15560. 




  






