---
layout: item
title: Subway Ticket
author: Matthew Landini
itemid: 2019-10-01-0008
itemcontributor: Navdeep Sharma
itemcreator: 
itemsubjecturl: 
itemsubject: Subway Ticket
itemdate: ca. 2019
itemtype: Physical Object
shortdesc: A subway ticket from the Berlin subway. 
categories: [ Nostalgia, travel, culture, Europe, Berlin]
tags: [ material culture, ticket, travel, Berlin ]
---

## About This Object

A ticket stub from Berlin's subway, dated to summer of 2019. This was Navdeeps first time traveling to Berlin, and Europe in general. When he travels, Navdeep enjoys collecting the "little things" as he travels. 

Travel in gerneral has been on the rise over the last few years, with European destinations being the some of the most visited. Germany, according to a 2017 article published by The Guardian, welcomed 37 million vistors from outside countries, while the U.S. had 87.8 million people travel abroad in some fashion. [^1] 16.6 million of those to Europe.

When in Europe, one of the most popular modes of transportation for both tourists and citizens in train. Since 2018, there has been a European movement called *flygskam* that has banded together Europeans to travel more by ground vehicles (trains, car, ship, etc.) than by air. [^2] This is all in effort to reduce the carbon footprint that air travel leaves behind and led to a 10% increase in international and domestic travelers in Europe to travel by train over the Spring and Summer months. Ifyou would like to read more on the effects of *flygskam*, more can be found [here](https://time.com/5641390/europe-train-air-travel/).

Regardless of the method of transportation as you travel, traveling has numerous benefits, including increasing mental health, reducing stress, inspiring creativity, and assisting in cross-cultural understanding. [^3] 

<p class="blockquote">I like to travel and this is a subway ticket from Berlin, from my first time traveling in Europe.  I tend to keep all the little things that I collect when I travel. it was my first time traveling in Europe and I really liked Berlin so it has memories attached to it and that’s why it’s significant. {% if page.itemcontributor %}<br><strong>—{{ page.itemcontributor }}</strong>{% endif %}</p>

[^1]: Blackall, Molly. “Global Tourism Hits Record Highs - but Who Goes Where on Holiday?” The Guardian, Guardian News and Media, 1 July 2019, www.theguardian.com/news/2019/jul/01/global-tourism-hits-record-highs-but-who-goes-where-on-holiday.
[^2]: Abend, Lisa. “Why Many Europeans Are Opting for Train Travel Over Flying.” Time, Time, 6 Aug. 2019, time.com/5641390/europe-train-air-travel/.
[^3]: Alton, Larry. “5 Scientifically Proven Health Benefits of Traveling Abroad.” NBCNews.com, NBCUniversal News Group, 19 May 2017, www.nbcnews.com/better/wellness/5-scientifically-proven-health-benefits-traveling-abroad-n759631.
